Email marketing tactics deployed during Kitfox's Boyfriend Dungeon Kickstarter campaign.

They sent emails to subscribers written from the point of view of The Dateable Weapons. They get fans who were not already on the mailing list to join by promising that every subscriber would receive love letters directly from The Dateable Weapons. 

Then they sent a love letter every week during the campaign. The email even goes on to provide some behind the scenes detail of the making of the game.

They grew an email list of over 6000 subscribers through a signup on their website and by having a form available at all the conventions they attended.

Prior to the Kickstarter, Kitfox would email their list on average about once a month. The emails introduced the team and provided free giveaways.

They centered their email campaign around their strongest resource: The Boyfriends. Each email would reveal a bit about the character and a bit about the game’s world. Each email would also have a clear call to action to back the Kickstarter. 

The intimacy of emails put the boyfriend’s personality right in front of the fans. Outside the emails, their personalities were kept at arms' length.

The plan was a bit goofy, a bit funny, and a bit sexy. It was perfectly aligned to what the game itself would be. 

There must be an extra incentive (lead magnets) in exchange for people to hand their email. In this case, the secret love letters from The Dateable Weapons is the lead magnet. Exclusive downloads usually yield better results.

Make sure the signup is very prominent everywhere people will be coming in.
Make sure the email signup is the only way to get the bonus content so that you drive people to the email list.

The email that gets the most interaction should be short, to the point, and with a very clear call to action. Kitfox ended the email with:

"Hey you, soon I'll be taking over to send you a very special love note."

This message from a Dateable Weapon is what is called an open loop. This open loop boosts the open rate of your next email because people will want to know what happens.

Don't send only one email! The majority of your audience is not going to drop everything the first time they receive your email. They need reminding. Your followers really like getting email from you as long the emails are high quality and interesting.

This content-first-approach makes people trust your emails.

It is important to send a “last chance” email, to get the procrastinators to finally decide to purchase. Use the “Fear of Missing Out” response to get people to act. Avoid using ALL-CAPS or the word “FREE” in your email subject line though, or it may get flagged as spam.

You can even send a final final email and send it only to a subset of the list who didn’t open the previous “last chance” email.

Use unique referral links for each channel of your marketing. You probably should also do it from facebook too since there are many ways that traffic can come in.  

You can set up an auto responder that will send new subscribers existing content on a set schedule with new call to actions.