What makes Clash Royale so addictive?

Just when you think you had enough, they come up with a new update. Every update improves the game, spices up the gameplay, improves engagement and increases monetization. There's always hype around new cards, and they are slowly dripped to the players.

The Chest mechanic is included in every aspect of the game. And why not. It's a phenomenal way to slow player's progress, drive social gameplay, increase monetization and most importantly, create a positive feeling at the beginning of every session.  

A player who plays for 6 hours a day may have better skills than a player who plays 30 minutes a day, but they will both have pretty much same level card decks.

When most of the sessions end with a losing streak and a promise to stop playing the game, that chest-unlock notification three hours later is vital to lure the player back to the game. 

Clash of Clans offers an incredibly wide range of meaningful session lengths ranging from dozen seconds to several hours. 

Events are extremely popular because the change up the gameplay by either giving a player a randomized set of cards or by overall changing the rules of the game. Because these events are rare, their impact on engagement is strong. 

Much like in Clash of Clans, the meta-game of Royale is extremely well balanced, constantly growing and never deteriorating, meaning that a new card never replaces an old one. This close to perfect balance of cards is evident when watching the top matches in Royale TV or going through the leaderboards as every high-level deck is different than the other ones. 

Clash Royale is frustratingly well balanced. You can get outclassed with a deck that you yourself could build at any time. When this happens, you're drawn to experiment with that deck and that playstyle yourself. Going on a losing streak puts the player back in front of the drawing board. 

Clans increase engagement. A good Clan requires every player to donate actively and keep their trophies growing. If you fail to keep up with other members, you'll be left looking for a new Clan.