Realism leads to believability, which in turn leads to immersion, a feeling of presence.

Let your city tell its story. A city is everything that happens within, that shapes and is shaped by it.

Start building a city by asking where, when, and how big. Then make a list of your core functions in as detailed a way as possible.

The biggest and most prominent buildings can and should emphasize the dominant urban ideology.

Don't ignore or simplify vehicular and human traffic.
Have, or start from interesting in-city topographical or geographical elements.

Have believable city life. Street activity is very important.

Though it would make sense in a village, being in a supposed metropolis and telling the players to go to the ONLY book shop just doesn't feel right.

Other commonly forgotten elements include evidence of functioning infrastructure, public spaces, street furniture, class and land use divisions, dynamism and history.

Buildings under construction and related equipments help provide a virtual place with a sense of history in the making.

Cities are built to facilitate and support commerce, production, consumption, health services, shelter, entertainment, schools, and access to food and water, transportation, culture, ideology, the circulation of capital, and housing. Functions do of course change and evolve throughout history.

Everything in a city is put in its place for a purpose.

Embrace huge, dramatic differences and changes within your city.

Be influenced by what actual cities were influenced by, and be consistent.

Consider the wider geography and hinterland of your city.

Consider which parts of your city are public and private.

Graffiti, posters, signs, street art are also significant.

Play around with space and comfort to evoke sensations.

A nice balance of order and chaos works wonderfully for cities.

You can use tricks that urbanists and city planners use to help actual humans navigate actual cities.

Legendary city planner Kevin Lynch decided there are five crucial elements people see and experience when moving around cities: Paths, Edges (breaks in continuity), Districts (coherent areas), Nodes (points that help orientation such as squares and junctions), and Landmarks. 

You can also play around with scale, slope and sound to help players navigate.

There is always the need to imply more for a game city. Use object placement and our almost instinctive knowledge of how settlements tend to look. Avoid straight roads. Have background objects. Add more inaccessible buildings to your urban areas.