Red flags to look out for in a job hunt:

Their job posting doesn't say what you would actually be doing. If you can't see at least three concrete (not vaguely termed) tasks you would be expected to do, ask for more information. 

They try to make you upset in order to "test you" during the interview. It's one thing to have an interviewer admit that it can get very stressful. It's another thing for them to touch your breaking point. These are toxic people and you need to get the hell away from them.

They aren't very well put together at the interview. It may be they were having a bad day or, more likely, that they are constantly unprepared and distracted. That often makes for a very difficult and stressful work environment.

They can't answer how a typical day in the job will look like. They may not actually know, they don't care, or they're hiding something. Which are not good.

No one you will work with or for is at the in-person interview. The chances of you getting useful answers to your questions about culture or work expectations are not likely. It may be an indication of a few problems, such as a controlling owner or a team that doesn't know they're getting a new member.

If they get mad at you for bringing up issues like high turnovers, then this is a very bad place.

They refuse to talk about pay or benefits even after the second interview. It is going to be uncomfortable and you could have gone through several interviews before you know if you could afford to take the job.

Anyone who actually makes you feel bad for asking or who refuses to even give you a pay range without an offer in hand should be avoided.

They don't show clear boundaries between work and life.

They don't know basic things about your local industry. A small new studio that has their shit together will be able to talk intelligently about the local market and industry.

They bash other companies. An interviewer has no reason to disparage another company in front of an interviewee. 

They won't show you around the studio/office. This is usually a sign that they are hiding something and it's either the team or the workspace. If a company is really serious about you they'll make sure you get to check the place out and talk to the team to make sure you're a good fit. You should be able to ask if you can check out where you might be working and most places would be proud to show you around.

If something doesn't feel right about anything from the application to the interview then just drop it. If they get back to you just say another opportunity came up or don't answer at all. 